README.md, before:

# Extension Manager
[![Build Status](https://img.shields.io/github/workflow/status/mjakeman/extension-manager/CI)](https://github.com/mjakeman/extension-manager/actions/workflows/main.yml)
[![Release Version](https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/mjakeman/extension-manager)](github.com/mjakeman/extension-manager/releases/latest)
[![Downloads](https://img.shields.io/badge/dynamic/json?color=green&label=downloads&query=downloads_total&url=https%3A%2F%2Fflathub.org%2Fapi%2Fv2%2Fstats%2Fcom.mattjakeman.ExtensionManager)](https://flathub.org/apps/details/com.mattjakeman.ExtensionManager)
[![License (GPL-3.0)](https://img.shields.io/github/license/mjakeman/extension-manager)](http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0)

A native tool for browsing, installing, and managing GNOME Shell Extensions.

Written with GTK 4 and libadwaita.

![Screenshot of the main GUI (light mode)](data/screenshot-combined.png#gh-light-mode-only)
![Screenshot of the main GUI (dark mode)](data/screenshot-combined-dark.png#gh-dark-mode-only)

## Features
The tool supports:
 - Browsing and searching extensions from `extensions.gnome.org`
 - Installation and Removal
 - Enabling and Disabling
 - Updating in-app 
 - Screenshots &amp; Images
 - Ratings &amp; Comments
 - Translations ([add your language!](https://github.com/mjakeman/extension-manager/issues/27))

If there's something you'd like to see, contributions are welcome!

## Installing
Flatpak is the recommended way to install Extension Manager. 

You can get the latest version from flathub by clicking the button below. There
may also be independently-maintained packages available for your distribution.

<a href="https://flathub.org/apps/details/com.mattjakeman.ExtensionManager">
<img src="https://flathub.org/assets/badges/flathub-badge-i-en.png" width="190px" />
</a>

### Third Party Packages
You may also be able to obtain Extension Manager from your distribution's package manager. Note these packages are maintained independently and thus may differ from the official version on Flathub. Please report any issues experienced to the package maintainer.

[![Packaging status](https://repology.org/badge/vertical-allrepos/extension-manager.svg)](https://repology.org/project/extension-manager/versions)

## Translations
Extension Manager has been translated into several different languages. Ideally, the
program will respect your system language out-of-the-box. However, you may need to take
some additional steps in order for flatpak to recognise your chosen locale. The
following workaround may work for you:

Set the languages you wish to use explicitly (e.g. `en` for English, `es` for Español):
```
# Optionally add --user if installed in a user prefix
flatpak config --set languages 'en;es'
```

Then update:
```
flatpak update
```

Now Extension Manager should respect your system language.

## Using Unsupported Extensions
GNOME Shell will not load extensions that were not designed for your current
version. You can override this behaviour by manually disabling GNOME Shell's
version check. Extension Manager will respect this preference and allow you
to use unsupported extensions fully.

Note that unsupported extensions will likely not work as intended and
may introduce instability to your system. The version check should therefore
be disabled at your own risk.

Turn off the version check and allow unsupported extensions:

```
gsettings set org.gnome.shell disable-extension-version-validation true
```

Use the default setting and return to safety:
```
gsettings reset org.gnome.shell disable-extension-version-validation
```

## Building
The easiest way to build is by cloning this repo with GNOME Builder. It
will automatically resolve all relevant flatpak SDKs automatically.

If you run into issues, make sure you have the [`gnome-nightly`](https://wiki.gnome.org/Apps/Nightly)
flatpak repository installed.

Commit message:

Refresh README
 - Add known issues
 - Add emojis to headings
 - Fix downloads counter

README.md, after:

# Extension Manager
[![Build Status](https://img.shields.io/github/workflow/status/mjakeman/extension-manager/CI)](https://github.com/mjakeman/extension-manager/actions/workflows/main.yml)
[![Release Version](https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/mjakeman/extension-manager)](github.com/mjakeman/extension-manager/releases/latest)
[![Downloads](https://img.shields.io/badge/dynamic/json?color=green&label=downloads&query=installs_total&url=https%3A%2F%2Fflathub.org%2Fapi%2Fv2%2Fstats%2Fcom.mattjakeman.ExtensionManager)](https://flathub.org/apps/details/com.mattjakeman.ExtensionManager)
[![License (GPL-3.0)](https://img.shields.io/github/license/mjakeman/extension-manager)](http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0)

A native tool for browsing, installing, and managing GNOME Shell Extensions.

Written with GTK 4 and libadwaita.

![Screenshot of the main GUI (light mode)](data/screenshot-combined.png#gh-light-mode-only)
![Screenshot of the main GUI (dark mode)](data/screenshot-combined-dark.png#gh-dark-mode-only)

## 📋 Features
The tool supports:
 - Browsing and searching extensions from `extensions.gnome.org`
 - Installation and Removal
 - Enabling and Disabling
 - Updating in-app (See [#165](https://github.com/mjakeman/extension-manager/issues/165#issuecomment-1101004729))
 - Screenshots &amp; Images
 - Ratings &amp; Comments
 - Translations ([add your language!](https://github.com/mjakeman/extension-manager/issues/27))

If there's something you'd like to see, contributions are welcome!

## ⚠️ Known Issues
### May not check for updates
Currently there is an issue in which automatic updates will not work **unless the official GNOME Extensions app is also installed**. You can handle all updates from within Extension Manager but [`org.gnome.Extensions`](https://flathub.org/apps/details/org.gnome.Extensions) must also be installed on your computer in order for GNOME Shell to check for updates. The status of this issue can be checked here: [Issue #165](https://github.com/mjakeman/extension-manager/issues/165#issuecomment-1101004729)

## 💻 Installing
Flatpak is the recommended way to install Extension Manager. 

You can get the latest version from flathub by clicking the button below. There
may also be independently-maintained packages available for your distribution.

<a href="https://flathub.org/apps/details/com.mattjakeman.ExtensionManager">
<img src="https://flathub.org/assets/badges/flathub-badge-i-en.png" width="190px" />
</a>

### Third Party Packages
You may also be able to obtain Extension Manager from your distribution's package manager. Note these packages are maintained independently and thus may differ from the official version on Flathub. Please report any issues experienced to the package maintainer.

[![Packaging status](https://repology.org/badge/vertical-allrepos/extension-manager.svg)](https://repology.org/project/extension-manager/versions)

## 🌐 Translations
Extension Manager has been translated into several different languages. Ideally, the
program will respect your system language out-of-the-box. However, you may need to take
some additional steps in order for flatpak to recognise your chosen locale. The
following workaround may work for you:

Set the languages you wish to use explicitly (e.g. `en` for English, `es` for Español):
```
# Optionally add --user if installed in a user prefix
flatpak config --set languages 'en;es'
```

Then update:
```
flatpak update
```

Now Extension Manager should respect your system language.

## ⏰ Using Unsupported Extensions
GNOME Shell will not load extensions that were not designed for your current
version. You can override this behaviour by manually disabling GNOME Shell's
version check. Extension Manager will respect this preference and allow you
to use unsupported extensions fully.

Note that unsupported extensions will likely not work as intended and
may introduce instability to your system. The version check should therefore
be disabled at your own risk.

Turn off the version check and allow unsupported extensions:

```
gsettings set org.gnome.shell disable-extension-version-validation true
```

Use the default setting and return to safety:
```
gsettings reset org.gnome.shell disable-extension-version-validation
```

## 🔨 Building
The easiest way to build is by cloning this repo with GNOME Builder. It
will automatically resolve all relevant flatpak SDKs automatically.

If you run into issues, make sure you have the [`gnome-nightly`](https://wiki.gnome.org/Apps/Nightly)
flatpak repository installed.
